---
created: 2025-01-30T11:24
updated: 2025-02-12T20:30
tags:
  - Present
aliases:
  - Supply chain
  - Industrial Farming
  - Monoculture
author: Laura DeOliveira
---
# Demand Increases Industrial Farming 


> [!note] > Diogo's comment
> This Demand to Extinction section is very interesting.
> 
> With these notes (CAFO and [[Monoculture Agricultural Practices]]) I'm thinking about how important it is for our research to explore how food is produced. Maybe exploring these topics will help us answer: 
> 
> - How will we produce food for the entire population? Are CAFO and monocultures the solution?
> - Are lab-produced meats safe?
> - What are meat alternatives? (As you said, Taahira, there is no such thing as "meat alternatives" in Asia.)
>  
> I consider these topics important because I suspect we’ll find connections to some of the topics we discussed at our gate this week—e.g., meat alternatives and lab-produced meats.


CAFO, concentrated animal feeding operations

Industrial agriculture is the large-scale, intensive production of crops and animals, often involving chemical fertilizers on crops or the routine, harmful use of antibiotics in animals (as a way to compensate for filthy conditions, even when the animals are not sick

[WIkipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concentrated_animal_feeding_operation#:~:text=Due%20to%20their%20increased%20efficiency,local%20materials%20in%20their%20production.)
Due to their increased efficiency, **CAFOs provide a source of low cost animal products**: meat, milk and eggs. CAFOs may also stimulate local economies through increased employment and use of local materials in their production.

## Insights
USA Tax Funding used for CAFO's

Civil Eats, [The Field Report: Conservation Dollars Funding CAFOs Instead of Soil Health](https://civileats.com/2022/04/19/the-field-report-federal-conservation-funding-eqip-crp-ethanol-dietary-guidelines-h-2a-visas-farmworkers/)

'In Iowa and other states that are home to large industrial animal agriculture industries, the report detailed how EQIP funds practices that involve managing the large amounts of animal waste generated by concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs). A change in the 2002 Farm Bill made CAFOs eligible for EQIP funds for the first time, a development that has been controversial from the start. Organizations like IATP contend that the CAFO system is inherently unsustainable, and taxpayer money should not be used to clean up the resulting accumulation of manure. Instead, they argue that it should be used to help farmers avoid those systems altogether and use practices such as managed grazing, which has science-based environmental benefits.'

## Examples

## Reference Links


